# Machine Learning
This folder holds four different python scripts to demonstrate some features of machine learning
along with the mushroom.csv dataset to use.

These scripts were written in python 3.7.9 and from personal experience many of the libraries have issues
with newer versions of python.


# Dependencies
	Numpy
	Pandas
	Sklearn (Scikit-Learn)
	Keras
	Tensorflow
	Matplotlib


# svm_search.py
Use:

	> python svm_search.py
	
This file uses a coarse grid search to identify the most accurate SVM kernel and hyperparameters to
start with. Then a fine grid search is ran of the hyperparameters for the previously identified
best-performing kernel. For each of these processes the grid search is performed with 7 fold cross validation
and uses the average of those folds.

In order to switch between the coarse and fien searches, the  ''' comments can be moved to alternate between
the two methods

The script outputs the average accuracy over 7 folds of each SVM that it tests with the standard deviaiton to
the console. At the top of the list is the identified best performing set of hyperparameters. 


# nn_search.py
Use:

	> python nn_search.py
	
This file uses a coarse grid search to identify the most accurate activation function and neuron counts
for each layer to start with. Then runs a fine grid search of the neuron counts for the previously identified
best-performing activation functions. For each of these processes the grid search is performed with 3 fold cross 
validation, because any more would melt the CPU, and uses the average of those folds.

The script outputs the average accuracy over 3 folds of each neural network configuration that it tests to
the console. At the top of the list is the identified best performing set of hyperparameters. 

							**WARNING**
This script takes so long to perform it is necessary to make sure you computer is not set to automatically go to sleep.
The coarse grid search is commented out initially so only the fine grid search will run unless changes are made.


# svm_best.py
Use:

	> python svm_best.py
	
This script further explores the best performing SVM model. It displays the accuracy, precision, and recall of the
model at for different numbers of K-folds. 

A precsion and recall curve is then generated by using an individual run of the model on a single train-test data split.


# nn_best.py
Use:

	> python nn_best.py
	
This script displays the three metrics, accuracy, precision, and recall of the best performing neural net. 

It then generates a precision and recall curve by using the sklearn library methods with matplotlib and
the results from the single run it performs.


# Submission Info
- Josh Bridges
- jbridg12
- 11/03/2021
